So let's talk about a couple of issues with the way I've set up the U-V map currently.
If you notice this wall back here is maybe a little more than half the size of this wall here with the
windows but notice it's taking up the same amount of space on the map.
Same with this door it's a different size than these other two walls but it's also taking up the same
width at least on the map.
So it doesn't look like our texture if we lay it down and tile it in Photoshop it doesn't look like
it's going to be the same size on all of the walls.
But let's test that.
Let's bring in U-V test pattern here into our node Ed..
But I think instead of using this wall living material Let's use our own material our own U-V test pattern.
Do we have one set up yet.
I don't think we do.
Let's go ahead and create a new material for our U-V test pattern.
Click the plus arrow here.
We'll call this U-V test.
And we'll assign that U.V. test node to it as well.
So a press shift a texture image texture.
And let's go ahead and select this U-V test pattern that we created some time ago and we can connect
it up here in the node Ed..
Now we can see it over here because we have texture viewport shading selected.
Now we've got a lot of other materials on our objects here.
For now I'm just going to remove all of these and that will allow us to see it on all of the walls.
Since that's our only material.
Now let's take a look at this the squares for these two walls.
Don't look too bad.
They look almost the same size.
But if we come over here you can see that the squares for this wall here look quite a bit bigger.
And that's going to be a problem when we lay down our texture.
So if I tap back into edit mode here these squares are bigger because this U-V map is smaller.
So if I just select the map here and hit s and scaled it up some see I can scale it up and tell the
squares are about the same size.
So the problem is that for our textures to be proportional and lay down on the object in the same way
our U.V. maps are going to have to be proportional to the size of the object in the room here.
So how do we do that.
Well we can use that average Island scale tool again just like we did with the couch.
So if I hit say the Beaky and border select all of these objects right in here now I'm not going to
worry about the backs of the walls here see they're still down here.
Very small.
I'm not going to worry about those because we're not going to see those.
So now that I have these selected I can press control a remember down here into the movies menu you've
got average Island scale here that are control a small hit control a.
And now it really scales each individual U-V islands so that they're all proportional to the objects
in the room which allows us to have the texture be all one size or the checker patterns now are all
the same size.
And that's what we want.
So now what I can do is pack all these in.
Let me get these out of the way for just a moment here.
Reast select all of these with the Beaky.
And now I can pack them in pressing control P and then we go.
Now I'd like to rotate them.
I'll click this rotate here and there we go.
Now they're all packed and I can then take these guys and bring them back up put them up here somewhere
out of the way.
Now we're using a little bit more of the texture space here in our 0 to 1 space than we were before
with each individual object having its own unique U.V. map.
So now we can export this out to Photoshop.
Now here's a question for you.
Now that we've done this will we have to re-import these walls in unity.
We haven't really really mapped them.
We've just rearranged the islands within the movie map.
Is that going to be a problem.
Well yes we are going to need to re-import the walls now that we've changed the U-V map.
Anytime you change the U.V. map in any way whatsoever you need to get that object back over into unity
the U.V. map is embedded in with the object.
All right so now that we've exported that U.V. map what we can do is we can split these apart again
now into their individual objects.
So I have them selected and I can tap into edit mode and with all of these selected I can press the
P key and separate the walls out by loose parts.
Now they're all individual walls again and I can apply their individual materials back to them again.
So this is Wall living room back right.
So I can come in here and Wall living back and you can assign that created new materials slot and I
can assign that baseboard living back so I can get those back on there.
I can do the same thing over here.
This was wall living room left so I can assign wall living left and with a new material slot here a
sign that baseboard living left and with this wall I can assign this the wall windows and with the new
material slot assign it baseboard windows.
And then we go.
So now all their original materials are back on them.
Let's now go to photoshop and take a look at how we might texture these walls here in Photoshop or go
to File Open find to that wall U-V map right in here.
I'll call this Uvas and let's find a texture that we want to use.
I've got this paper texture here that looks kind of nice.
I think I'm going to try and work with this.
It isn't seamless but I think I can maybe make it work.
Let's give it a try.
So I'm going to click open here and open that.
And there we go.
I think if I hit the M key and use Marcie's select here in Photoshop and just select everything up to
there looks like I'm still getting some of these rivets on top.
I don't want that so I will go to my select menu use transform selection and I'll pull this transform.
This selection edge down like this.
And we go.
I'll hit enter and then I'll press control or command C to copy.
And let's take it back over here.
Now I'll paste the key for the move tool or press command 0 to zoom out or drag this below the movies
so I can see the Hughie's there and I'll collapse this down like this.
And let's see if we can do here.
Zoom in a bit.
And for this maybe I can just use it as is like this.
Yeah let's give this a try.
I'm going to select this part right here.
Get this out of here so like just this right here.
There and hit the delete key.
And then I will select the move tool press alt and shift and I'll move this up and then I'm going to
spin it all the way around.
So this faded pieces over here on the corner.
Let's give this a try.
I'm going to press shift and click over here on the corner and spin this around like that I'm going
to drag it down and kind of put it right against their Maybe something like this and I'll also drop
that underneath that first one.
So we have a clean edge there.
And now we need to cut it out for the baseboard something hit the MP and make sure that layer is selected
and then I'm going to drag a marquee to their and delete that.
So now we have the baseboards we need to deal with.
And we just need some sort of wood grain I think for that material.
Let me see what I have.
Let's take a look at these.
I've got that wood grain that we looked at earlier that I used on the coffee table.
But these want something a little darker maybe that that might not be bad.
Let's try this let's try and use some of this although we're going to have to duplicate it quite a few
times to get it to work.
I kind of like it though.
All right.
Let's give it a try why not.
So I will select all of that and copy it.
Bring it over here and let's paste that into their hit the V key.
And let's scale it down a bit.
Now how big do we want this to be.
We could take it like this and duplicated a few times and see if that works although we may get some
repeating maybe something like this.
Let's try that.
Yeah.
I'm going to press alt and shift and let's snap these over and hit the arrow key snap this hit the arrow
key and just tile this over for the rest of the baseboard here.
And one more.
All right.
Let's see how that looks.
Let's give it a test before I clean it up.
Let's give it a test and see.
I'll turn off the movies.
Go to file export and export as well export it as a PMG And let's give it a try.
I'll change this to a C right here for a color map and export.
Now if we go back into blender.
So for the wall windows here I'm going to bring in an image texture and open that up.
Go to my textures walls and wallpaper color.
Let's see how that looks.
It sufficiently gross.
Kind of like it.
Now notice what's happening with the window frames.
Why is that happening.
Well it's happening because we have the same materials on the window frames as we do on the wall.
If we actually get rid of these and give it a new material for it's and call it may be window frame
that gets rid of that.
Now we can assign that same material to these other windows by choosing the window frames and then selecting
this one last click that and then press control.
L And now we can make the material the same as the last one we selected.
So I'll choose material and that adds that material to all of those as well.
All right so what we'll do is we'll work on assigning these to the other walls and in the next video
we'll take it all into unity and see how it looks.